---
title: 从属连词
date: 2026-02-10 11:00:12
permalink: /articles/english/conjunction/SubordinateConjunction
categories:
  - 英语
tags:
  - 连词
titleTag: 连词
sidebar: true
article: true
comment: true
description: 从属连词连接两个或两个以上的句子;
docAnalysis: true
inCatalogue: true
autoTitle: true
articleUpdate: true
inHomePost: true
outline: [2,3]
---

## 引导时间状语从句
`When` I got to the cinema,I found that they had sold out all the tickets.

`While` I was watching TV,my sister was doing her homework.

I read the letter `as` I walked along the river.

`As soon as` he arrives,I'll call you.

Mr.Green waited `until` his children came back.

I have worked in this factory `since` I was twenty years old.

## 引导条件状语从句
`If` you go to the party,you will have a great time.

You will miss the bus `unless` you hurry up.

`As long as` you eat some shit,you will succeed.

## 引导原因状语从句
I was late for school,`because` I didn't catch the early bus;

`Since` everyone is here,let's begin our class;

`As` it is cold outside,we will put on out coats;

## 引导目的状语从句
He worked hard `so that` he could succeed.
> He worked hard `in orther to` he could succeed.

The teacher spoke loudly `in orther that` we could hear him clearly;

## 引导结果状语从句
This box is `so` heavy `that` I can't carry it.

She is `so` lovely a gril `that` we all like her.
> She is `such` a lovely girl `that` we all like her.

It's `such` good advice `that` I'll accept it.
## 引导让步状语从句
`Even if` you were here yesterday,you couldn't help him.
> `Though` you were here yesterday,you couldn't help him.


## 引导宾语从句
We know `that` the earth gose around the sun.

Can you tell me `whether` he will come tomorrow?

I want to know `why` he was late for school yesterday.

## 引导定语从句
I know the gril `who` is singing on the stage.

The man `whose` hair is gray is my grandfather.